.TH runsvctrl 8
.SH NAME
runsvctrl \- controls a service monitored by
.BR runsv (8).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runsvctrl
.I command
.I services
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I services
consists of one or more arguments, each argument naming a directory used by
.BR runsv (8).
.I command
is one of up, down, once, pause, cont, hup, alarm, interrupt, 1, 2, term,
kill, or exit.
.P
For each
.I service
of
.IR services ,
.B runsvctrl
sends the command
.I command
to the
.IR service ,
which must be controlled by
.BR runsv (8).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B up
If the service is not running, start it. If the service stops, restart it.
.TP
.B down
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal. If ./run exits,
start ./finish if it exists. After it stops, do not restart service.
.TP
.B once
If the service is not running, start it. Do not restart it if it stops.
.TP
.B pause
If the service is running, send it a STOP signal.
.TP
.B cont
If the service is running, send it a CONT signal.
.TP
.B hup
If the service is running, send it a HUP signal.
.TP
.B alarm
If the service is running, send it a ALRM signal.
.TP
.B interrupt
If the service is running, send it a INT signal.
.TP
.B 1
User-defined 1. If the service is running, send it a USR1 signal.
.TP
.B 2
User-defined 2. If the service is running, send it a USR2 signal.
.TP
.B term
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal.
.TP
.B kill
If the service is running, send it a KILL signal.
.TP
.B exit
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal. Do not restart the
service. If the service is down, and no log service exists,
.BR runsv (8)
exits. If the service is down and a log service exists, send a TERM signal
to the log service. If the log service is down,
.BR runsv (8)
exits. This command is ignored if it is given to
.IR service /log/supervise/control.
.P
.BR runsvctrl
actually looks only at the first character of
.IR command .
.SH EXIT CODES
.B runsvctrl
exits 0, if the
.I command
was sent successfully to all
.IR services .
.P
For each
.I service
that caused an error (e.g. the directory is not controlled by a
.BR runsv (8)
process),
.B runsvctrl
increases the exit code by one and exits non zero. The maximum is 100.
.P
.B runsvctrl
exits 111 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
runsvstat(8),
runit(8),
runit-init(8),
runsvdir(8),
runsv(8),
svwaitdown(8),
svwaitup(8)
.P
 http://smarden.org/runit/
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
