.TH runsv 8
.SH NAME
runsv \- starts and monitors a service and optionally an appendant log
service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runsv
.I service
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I service
must be a directory.
.P
.B runsv
switches to the directory
.I service
and starts ./run. if ./run exits and ./finish exists,
.B runsv
starts ./finish. If ./finish doesn't exist or ./finish exits,
.B runsv
restarts ./run.
.P
If ./run or ./finish exit immediatly,
.B runsv
waits a second before starting ./finish or restarting ./run.
.P
If the file
.IR service /down
exists,
.B runsv
does not start ./run immediately. The control interface (see below) can be
used to start the service and to give other commands to
.BR runsv .
.P
If the directory
.IR service /log
exists,
.B runsv
creates a pipe, redirects
.IR service /run's
and
.IR service /finish's
standard output to the pipe, switches to the directory
.IR service /log
and starts ./run (and ./finish) exactly as described above for the
.I service
directory. The standard input of the log service a redirected to read from
the pipe.
.P
.B runsv
maintains status information in a binary format compatible to
.BR supervise (8)
in
.IR service /supervise/status
and
.IR service /log/supervise/status,
and in a human-readable format in
.IR service /supervise/stat,
.IR service /log/supervise/stat,
.IR service /supervise/pid,
.IR service /log/supervise/pid.
.SH CONTROL
The named pipes
.IR service /supervise/control,
and (optionally)
.IR service /log/supervise/control
are provided to give commands to
.BR runsv .
You can use
.BR svc (8)
to control the service or just write one of the following characters to
the named pipe:
.TP
.B u
Up. If the service is not running, start it. If the service stops, restart
it.
.TP
.B d
Down. If the service is running, send it a TERM signal. If ./run exits,
start ./finish if it exists. After it stops, do not restart service.
.TP
.B o
Once. If the service is not running, start it. Do not restart it if it
stops.
.TP
.B p
Pause. If the service is running, send it a STOP signal.
.TP
.B c
Continue. If the service is running, send it a CONT signal.
.TP
.B h
Hangup. If the service is running, send it a HUP signal.
.TP
.B a
Alarm. If the service is running, send it a ALRM signal.
.TP
.B i
Interrupt. If the service is running, send it a INT signal.
.TP
.B 1
User-defined 1. If the service is running, send it a USR1 signal.
.TP
.B 2
User-defined 2. If the service is running, send it a USR2 signal.
.TP
.B t
Terminate. If the service is running, send it a TERM signal.
.TP
.B k
Kill. If the service is running, send it a KILL signal.
.TP
.B x \fRor \fBe
Exit.
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal.
Do not restart the service.
If the service is down, and no log service exists,
.B runsv
exits.
If the service is down and a log service exists,
.B runsv
closes the standard input of the log service, and waits for it to terminate.
If the log service is down,
.B runsv
exits.
This command is ignored if it is given to
.IR service /log/supervise/control.
.P
For example, to send a TERM signal to /service/socklog-unix, either do
  # svc \-t /service/socklog-unix
 or
  # echo \-n t >/service/socklog-unix/supervise/control
.P
If
.BR echo (1)
on your systems does not provide the \-n option, leave it out,
.B runsv
ignores unknown characters written to the control pipe.
.BR echo (1)
usually blocks if no
.B runsv
process is running in the service directory.
.SH SIGNALS
If
.B runsv
receives a TERM signal, it acts as if the character x was written to the
control pipe.
.SH EXIT CODES
.B runsv
exits 111 on an error on startup or if another
.B runsv
is running in
.IR service .
.P
.B runsv
exits 0 if it was told to exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
runit(8),
runit-init(8),
runsvdir(8),
svc(8),
supervise(8)
.P
 http://smarden.org/runit/
 http://cr.yp.to/daemontools.html
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
