.TH runsvdir 8
.SH NAME
runsvdir \- starts and monitors a collection of runsv(8) processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runsvdir
.I dir
[
.I log
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dir
must be a directory.
.I log
is a space holder for a readproctitle log and must be at least seven
characters long.
.P
.B runsvdir
starts a
.BR runsv (8)
process for each subdirectory in
.IR dir ,
up to a limit of 1000 subdirectories.
.B runsvdir
skips subdirectory names starting with dots.
.BR runsv (8)
must be in
.BR runsvdir 's
PATH.
.P
At least every five seconds,
.B runsvdir
checks if
.I dir
has changed. If it sees a new subdirectory in
.IR dir ,
it starts a new
.BR runsv (8)
process. If it sees an old sudirectory where a
.BR runsv (8)
process has exited, it restarts the
.BR runsv (8)
process.
If
.B runsvdir
sees a subdirectory being removed that was previously there, it sends
the corresponding
.BR runsv (8)
process a TERM signal, stops monitoring this process, and so does not
restart the
.BR runsv (8)
process if it exits.
.P
If the
.I log
argument is given to
.BR runsvdir ,
all output to standard error is redirected to this
.IR log ,
which is similar to the
.BR readproctitle (8)
log. To see the most recent error messages, use a process-listing tool
such as
.BR ps (1).
.B runsvdir
writes a dot to the readproctitle log every 15 minutes so that old
error messages expire.
.P
Normally
.B runsvdir
is started by
.BR runit (8)
in stage 2.
.SH SIGNALS
If
.B runsvdir
receives a TERM signal, it sends a TERM signal to each
.BR runsv (8)
process it is monitoring and then exits.
.SH SEE ALSO
runit(8),
runit-init(8),
runsv(8),
readproctitle(8),
svscan(8)
.P
 http://smarden.org/runit/
 http://cr.yp.to/daemontools.html
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
