.TH svwaitup 8
.SH NAME
svwaitup \- waits for services controlled by supervise(8) to be up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svwaitup
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-s
.I sec
]
.I services
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I services
consist of one or more arguments.
.P
.B svwaitup
checks each
.I service
given at the command line for being at least the specified number of seconds
.I sec
up. The
.I services
given at the command line must be controlled by
.BR supervise (8).
.P
.B svwaitup
blocks until all
.I services
were up and running at least
.I sec
seconds when
.B svwautup
was checking or reports errors.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
verbose. Print verbose messages to stderr.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsec
Set the minimum number of seconds each
.I service
has to be up to
.I sec
seconds.
.I sec
must be between 2 and 600. Default is 2.
.SH EXIT CODES
.B svwaitup
returns 0 as soon as all
.I services
were at least
.I sec
seconds up.
.P
.BR Note :
If
.B svwaitup
exits 0, it does not guarantee that all
.I services
are actually running. A
.I service
could have crashed immediatly after
.B svwaitup
was successfully checking it to be up
.I sec
seconds.
.I services
should be designed not to rely on
.B svwaitup
to resolve dependencies.
.P
For each
.I service
that is down and not requested to become up, or that causes an error while
checking (e.g.
.BR supervise (8)
is not running),
.B svwaitup
increases the exit code by one and exits non zero. The maximum is 100.
.P
.B svwaitup
returns 111 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
svwaitdown(8),
supervise(8),
svscan(8),
runit(8),
runit-init(8)
.P
 http://smarden.org/runit/
 http://cr.yp.to/daemontools.html
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
